<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_man_01_2016-04-27">
  <title>Publikationen zum DTA-Basisformat</title>
  <titlealts><navtitle>Publikationen</navtitle></titlealts>
  <body>
    <ul>
        <li><lines>Zum DTABf:</lines>Susanne Haaf, Alexander Geyken, Frank Wiegand: <i>The DTA “Base Format”: A TEI Subset for the Compilation of a Large Reference Corpus of Printed Text from Multiple Sources.</i> In: Journal of the Text Encoding Initiative 8, 2014/15. <xref href="http://jtei.revues.org/1114" scope="external" format="html">Online-Version</xref>, DOI: 10.4000/jtei.1114.<lines/>
            Alexander Geyken, Susanne Haaf, Frank Wiegand: <i>The DTA ‘base format’: A TEI-Subset for the Compilation of Interoperable Corpora.</i> In: 11th Conference on Natural Language Processing (KONVENS) – Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, Proceedings of the Conference. Edited by Jeremy Jancsary. Wien, 2012 (= Schriftenreihe der Österreichischen Gesellschaft für Artificial Intelligence 5). <xref href="http://www.oegai.at/konvens2012/proceedings/57_geyken12w/57_geyken12w.pdf" scope="external" format="pdf">Online-Version</xref>.</li>
        <li><lines>Zum DTABf für Zeitungen:</lines>Susanne Haaf, Matthias Schulz: <i>Historical Newspapers &amp; Journals for the DTA.</i> In: Language Resources and Technologies for Processing and Linking Historical Documents and Archives – Deploying Linked Open Data in Cultural Heritage – LRT4HDA. Proceedings of the workshop, held at the Ninth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC'14), May 26–31, 2014, Reykjavik (Iceland), p. 50–54. <xref href="http://www.lrec-conf.org/proceedings/lrec2014/workshops/LREC2014Workshop-LRT4HDA%20Proceedings.pdf#page=57" scope="external" format="html">Online-Version</xref>.</li>
        <li><lines>Zum DTABf für Manuskripte:</lines>Susanne Haaf, Christian Thomas: <i>Introducing the DTABf-M: A Manuscript-specific Extension to the DTA ›Base Format‹ (DTABf).</i> [In Review; eingereicht für jTEI 10]</li>
        <li><lines>Zu Analysemöglichkeiten in Korpora auf Grundlage des TEI(DTABf)-Tagging:</lines>Susanne Haaf: <i>Corpus Analysis based on Structural Phenomena in Texts: Exploiting TEI Encoding for Linguistic Research.</i> LREC 2016. [Im Erscheinen, vorgesehen für die "Proceedings of the Tenth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC'16)"]</li>
    </ul>
      
  </body>
</topic>
