<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="kontakt">
  <title>Imprint</title>
  <titlealts><navtitle>Imprint</navtitle></titlealts>
  <abstract><shortdesc>Imprint, Terms of Use and Contact Details</shortdesc></abstract>
  <body>
      <section>
        <title>Editors</title>
        <p>The DTA basic format was developed as part of the project 
        	<xref href="http://www.deutschestextarchiv.de" format="html" scope="external">Deutsches Textarchiv (German Text Archive)</xref> 
        	and is edited by the Zentrum Sprache at the Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Sciences and Humanities (BBAW).</p>
        <ul> 
        	<li>Authorized representative: Prof. Dr. Dr. Dr. h. c. mult. Martin Grötschel (President of BBAW)</li>
          <li>Organisation: Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Sciences and
					Humanities (BBAW), Jaegerstraße 22/23, 10117 Berlin, Germany; turnover
					tax identification number: DE167449058</li>
          <li>Publisher: Zentrum Sprache at BBAW, Jaegerstraße 22/23, 10117
					Berlin, Germany</li></ul>
      </section>
    <section>
      <title>Terms of Use</title>
      <p>The components of the DTA Base Format (documentation, ODDs,
				Schematron-Constraint-Set, RNGs) are published under the <xref
				href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/de/" format="html" scope="external">Creative Commons: Namensnennung - Weitergabe unter gleichen Bedingungen
				3.0 Deutschland (CC BY-SA 3.0 DE)</xref> license.</p>
      <p>The DTABf texts of the German Text Archive are subject to their own
				licensing regulations, which are laid down in the <xref
				href="http://www.deutschestextarchiv.de/doku/nutzungsbedingungen"
				format="html" scope="external">terms of use of the DTA</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Processors and Responsible Persons</title>
        <ul><li>Format: Matthias Boenig, Alexander Geyken, Susanne Haaf, Christian Thomas, Frank Wiegand</li>
          <li>Scheme, documentation &amp; maintenance of the format: Susanne Haaf</li>
				<li>English translation of documentation: Benjamin Fiechter, based
					on <xref href="https://www.deepl.com" format="html" scope="external">DeepL</xref> output</li>
          <li>Preparatory work (until 2010): Oliver Duntze, Christiane Fritze, Alexander Geyken</li>
        </ul>  
        
        <p>Contact: <xref href="mailto:haaf@bbaw.de" format="html" scope="external">haaf@bbaw.de</xref></p>
      <p>The tagset of the DTA base format is based on the <xref href="http://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/index.html" format="html" scope="external">P5 guidelines of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI)</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Technical Realization of the Documentation Pages</title>
      <p>This documentation is based on the XML documentation format 
        <xref href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.2/spec/DITA1.2-spec.html" format="html" scope="external">
          DITA (Darwin Information Typing Architecture)
        </xref>. 
        </p>
      <p>The mobile website was created using the <xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/" format="html" scope="external">oXygen XML editor</xref> and adapted to the design of the German Text Archive.</p>
      <p>Technical realisation and adaptations: Susanne Haaf, in cooperation with Matthias Boenig</p>
    </section>
    <section>
    	<title>Funding</title>
    	<p>The DTA Base Format was created as part of the project <xref href="http://www.deutschestextarchiv.de" format="html" scope="external">Deutsches Textarchiv</xref> which was funded by the German Research Foundation.</p>
    	<p>The format is further developed in <xref href="http://www.clarin-d.net" format="html" scope="external">CLARIN-D</xref> with funding by the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research.</p>
    	<p>The English translation of the documentation was developed in the course of the Horizon-2020 project <xref href="http://parthenos-project.eu/" format="html" scope="external">Parthenos</xref>.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
