<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_g2d_jxc_5y">
  <title>Introduction to the DTABf</title>
    <titlealts><navtitle>Introduction (English)</navtitle></titlealts>
  <body>
    <section><title>Introduction</title>
        
<p>
  The structural annotation of all DTA texts is done according to the DTA ›base format‹ (DTABf).
  The DTABf was developed in accordance with which is based on the P5-Guidelines of the 
  <xref href="http://www.tei-c.org/" format="html">Text Encoding Initiative (TEI)</xref>. Since the TEI Guidelines 
  are offering solutions for a huge amount of tagging requirements and are thus rather extensive 
  and flexible, they are meant to be adjusted to the individual necessities of projects working 
  with the TEI. For the DTA this was achieved by creation of the DTABf, a proper subset of the 
  TEI/P5 tagset, which offers not only fixed sets of elements but also of corresponding attributes 
  and (where applicable) values. The DTABf tagset is fully conformant with the TEI/P5-Guidelines, 
  i.e. the TEI tagset was only reduced not extended in any way. 
</p>

<p>
  The DTABf is part of the DTA Guidelines, which also contain General Guidelines 
  and the Transcription Guidelines. It is supposed to 
  allow for unrestricted tagging regarding possible structural phenomena while at the 
  same time avoiding ambiguities regarding the tagging of similar phenomena. This way 
  we want to ensure coherence in text structuring within the whole DTA corpus. Regarding 
  the wide temporal coverage of the DTA corpus as well as the diversity of text types and
  genres this named intend of the DTABf turns out to be a huge challenge due to the fact 
  that the heterogeneity of texts is accompanied by a huge structural variability among 
  the original text sources.  
</p>

<p>
  With the DTABf we are proposing a standardized format for the structural annotation 
  of digitized historical texts. The advantage of such an approach is that diverse 
  TEI texts become analyzable not only by similar methods but also in comparison with 
  one another. The underlying annotation guidelines of the DTABf are documented extensively, 
  this way ensuring that the tagging remains comprehensive. Thus, DTABf conformity not 
  only facilitaes the integration of TEI texts into the DTA infrastructure but also 
  their re-use inside other full text archives.  
</p></section>

<section><title>DTABf Documentation (German)</title>

<ul>
    <li><xref href="ziel.dita" outputclass="nu">Introduction to the DTABf &#x21D7;</xref></li>
    <li><xref href="metadaten.dita" outputclass="nu">Structuring of Metadata &#x21D7;</xref></li>
    <li><xref href="transkription.dita" outputclass="nu">Transcription Guidelines &#x21D7;</xref></li>
    <li><xref href="texterschliessung_formal.dita" outputclass="nu">Structuring of Formal (Typographic) Phenomena &#x21D7; </xref></li>
    <li><xref href="texterschliessung_inhaltlich.dita" outputclass="nu">Structuring of Semantic (Meaningful) Phenomena &#x21D7;</xref></li>
    <li>Besondere Textsorten <ul outputclass="embedded">
     <li outputclass="embedded"><xref href="manuskript.dita" outputclass="nu">Structuring of Manuscripts &#x21D7;</xref></li>
     <li outputclass="embedded"><xref href="zeitung.dita" outputclass="nu">Structuring of Newspapers and Journals &#x21D7;</xref></li>
     </ul></li>
    <li>Übersichten
        <ul outputclass="embedded">
          <li outputclass="embedded"><xref href="uebersichtHeader.dita" outputclass="nu">Overview of all DTABf-Elements within the <codeph>&lt;teiHeader></codeph> area &#x21D7;</xref></li>
    <li outputclass="embedded"><xref href="uebersichtText.dita" outputclass="nu">Overview of all DTABf-Elements within the  <codeph>&lt;text></codeph>area &#x21D7;</xref></li></ul></li>
    <li><xref href="http://www.deutschestextarchiv.de/doku/basisformat/vorlage_basisformat.xml" scope="external" format="xml" outputclass="nu">Boilerplate DTABf document &#x21D7;</xref></li>
          </ul>
  </section>
<section>
<title>DTABf Schema</title>
<ul>
    <li><xref href="http://www.deutschestextarchiv.de/basisformat.rng" scope="external" format="html" outputclass="nu">DTABf for prints: RNG schema&#x21D7;</xref></li>
    <li><xref href="http://www.deutschestextarchiv.de/basisformat.odd" scope="external" format="html" outputclass="nu">DTABf for prints: ODD &#x21D7;</xref></li>
    <li><xref href="http://www.deutschestextarchiv.de/basisformat_ms.rng" scope="external" format="html" outputclass="nu">DTABf for manuscripts: RNG schema&#x21D7;</xref></li>
    <li><xref href="http://www.deutschestextarchiv.de/basisformat_ms.odd" scope="external" format="html" outputclass="nu">DTABf for manuscripts: ODD &#x21D7;</xref></li>
    <li><xref href="http://www.deutschestextarchiv.de/basisformat.sch" scope="external" format="html" outputclass="nu">DTABf Schematron constraints set &#x21D7;</xref></li>
</ul></section>

<section><title>Useful Tools and Applications</title>
<p><b>Webform for Metadata Entry:</b></p>
<p>
  The DTA provides a web form, which facilitates the creation of DTABf conformant TEI Headers. 
  This way, users do not have to write the quite complex TEI-Headers by themselves but can 
  fill out the form and automatically generate a DTABf conformant TEI Header. 
</p>
<ul>
  <li><xref href="http://www.deutschestextarchiv.de/dtae/submit/clarin" format="html">Webform for Metadata Entry</xref></li>
</ul>

<p><b>Framework for Text Entry:</b></p>
<p>
  For text transcription and DTABf conformant annotation, the DTA offers a framework for the author
  mode of the oXygen XML-Editor. This DTA-oXygen-Framework DTAoX enables users to obtain an immediate
  visualization of their annotated texts as well as to transcribe and annotate texts from scratch in 
  a WYSIWYG-like environment. DTAoX is available under the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL). 
  The current version has been optimized for the oXygen versions 14.2 and 15.
</p>
  <ul>
    <li>Version 1.1.1 (November 29th, 2013): <xref href="http://www.deutschestextarchiv.de/files/DTAoX-1.1.1.zip" format="html">Framework</xref> (.zip) </li>
  </ul></section>

  </body>
</topic>
