<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="legende">
    <title>Explanations to the overviews</title>
    <titlealts><navtitle>Explanations</navtitle></titlealts>
  <body><bodydiv>
    <section id="tb-tl">
        <title>Text Area: Tagging Level</title>
        <p id="l01"><b>Level 1:</b> Elements that must be used to fulfill the DTA base format. These elements are consistently used in the DTA core corpus.</p>
        <p id="l02"><b>Level 2:</b> Elements whose use acc. to DTA base format is recommended, but this is not necessary. These elements are used in all texts of the DTA core corpus.</p>
        <p id="l03"><b>Level 3:</b> Elements that are contained in the DME base format but are not consistently applied in the texts of the DTA core corpus. The use of these elements is optional.</p>
        <p id="l04"><b>Level 4:</b> Elements that are explicitly not included in the DTA base format. They should therefore be avoided in favour of the respective solution of the DTA basic format.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="tb-fk">
        <title>Text Area: Functional Categories</title>
        <p id="fk01"><b>citations:</b> Elements that identify quotations etc.</p>
        <p id="fk02"><b>documentStructure:</b> Elements that identify the structures of the original, which allow external access to the source.</p>
        <p id="fk03"><b>drama:</b> Elements that identify drama-specific text units.</p>
        <p id="fk04"><b>editorial:</b> Elements that identify editorial interventions.</p>
        <p id="fk05"><b>floats:</b> Elements that identify blocks that interrupt the body text at document or element level.</p>
        <p id="fk06"><b>letter:</b> Elements that identify letter-specific text units.</p>
        <p id="fk07"><b>phraseStructure:</b> Elements that specify the function or appearance of individual words or phrases.</p>
        <p id="fk08"><b>tables:</b> Elements that describe the structure of tables.</p>
        <p id="fk09"><b>textStructure:</b> Elements that specify the function or appearance of text passages within the entire text.</p>
        <p id="fk10"><b>titlepage:</b> Elements that describe text sections on the title page of a work.</p>
        <p id="fk11"><b>verse:</b> Elements that identify poetry-specific text units.</p>
      </section>
      <section id="tb-ga">
          <title>Text Area: Generic Attributes</title>
          <p id="ga01"><b><codeph>@corresp</codeph>:</b> refers to corresponding internal elements or external objects [<codeph>"#[xml:id]", "#[URI]"</codeph>]</p>
          <p id="ga02"><b><codeph>@next</codeph>:</b> refers to the successor in a multipart element [<codeph>"#[xml:id]"</codeph>]</p>
          <p id="ga03"><b><codeph>@prev</codeph>:</b> refers to the predecessor in a multipart element [<codeph>"#[xml:id]"</codeph>]</p>
          <p id="ga04"><b><codeph>@rend</codeph>:</b> describes the type of highlighting of a character string</p>
          <p id="ga05"><b><codeph>@rendition</codeph>:</b> type of highlighting of a block [<codeph>"#aq", "#b", "#blue", "#bottomBraced", "#c", "#et", "#et2", "#et3", "#f", "#fr", "#g", "#i", "#in", "#k", "#larger", "#leftBraced", "#red", "#right", "#rightBraced", "#s", "#smaller", "#sub", "#sup", "#topBraced", "#u", "#uu", "#v"</codeph>]</p>
          <p id="ga06"><b><codeph>@sameAs</codeph>:</b> refers to an element of identical content [<codeph>"[xml:id]"</codeph>]</p>
          <p id="ga07"><b><codeph>@xml:id</codeph>:</b> element ID</p>
          <p id="ga08"><b><codeph>@xml:lang</codeph>:</b> language code (ISO 639-3)</p>
      </section></bodydiv>
      <bodydiv>
          <section id="hb-fk">
              <title>Header Area: Functional Categories</title>
              
              <p id="fkh01"><b>appearance:</b> appearance of the text/original</p>
              <p id="fkh02"><b>authorTitle:</b> bibliographic information on author and title</p>
              <p id="fkh03"><b>classification:</b> content-related and formal classification of the text</p>
              <p id="fkh04"><b>names:</b> names of persons, organizations and institutions</p>
              <p id="fkh05"><b>publication:</b> circumstances of publication</p>
              <p id="fkh06"><b>responsibility:</b> responsibility for editorial editing stations</p>
              <p id="fkh07"><b>sources:</b> sources on which the full text is based</p>
              <p id="fkh08"><b>text:</b> text structuring elements for entries in the TEI header</p>
          </section>
          <section id="hb-ga">
              <title>Header Area: Generic Attributes</title>
              <p id="gah01"><b><codeph>@corresp</codeph>:</b> refers to a corresponding element ["#[xml:id]"]</p>
              <p id="gah02"><b><codeph>@xml:id</codeph>:</b> element ID</p>
              <p id="gah03"><b><codeph>@xml:lang</codeph>:</b> language code (ISO 639-3)</p> 
          </section>
      </bodydiv>
  </body>
</topic>
