<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_wzt_1h2_qs">
    <title>Dealing with Incomplete Information</title>
    <body>
        <section id="rekAng"> <title>Reconstructable Information</title>  
    <p>Necessary information that is missing on the title pages of the original, e. g. the place of publication, the year of publication, the publisher's name, the author, are reconstructed as far as possible.
    </p>
            <p>The reconstructed information appear in the short title in square brackets.
    </p></section>
    <example>
        <title>Reconstructed Information in the Short Title</title> 
      <p><pre>[Calvi, François de]: Beutelschneider, oder newe warhaffte
        vnd eigentliche Beschreibung der Diebs Historien. [Bd. 1]. Frankfurt (Main), 1627.</pre></p>
        <p><xref format="html" scope="external" href="http://www.deutschestextarchiv.de/calvi_beutelschneider01_1627">http://www.deutschestextarchiv.de/calvi_beutelschneider01_1627</xref></p>
    </example>
            
    <p outputclass="space">These details are entered in the other fields provided for this purpose without further reference to their reconstruction.
    </p>
    <example>
        <title>Reconstructed Information Outside the Short Title</title> 
      <p><i>See:</i>
      <xref href="http://www.deutschestextarchiv.de/calvi_beutelschneider01_1627" scope="external" format="html">http://www.deutschestextarchiv.de/calvi_beutelschneider01_1627</xref>
      </p>
    </example>
    <p outputclass="space">An exception is the publisher's name, which does not appear in the short title. If it has been reconstructed, this will be noted accordingly in the <codeph>&lt;notesStmt&gt;</codeph> of the <codeph>&lt;sourceDesc&gt;</codeph>.
    </p>
   <example>
       <title>Reconstructed Information of the Publisher</title>
       <p><i>See:</i>
      <xref href="http://www.deutschestextarchiv.de/api/tei_header/hellwig_haussverwalter_1712" scope="external" format="html">http://www.deutschestextarchiv.de/api/tei_header/hellwig_haussverwalter_1712</xref>
           </p>
      </example>
        <section id="nRekAng"><title>Non-Reconstructible Information</title>
            <p>If an information cannot be reconstructed, it is stated corresponding to the following table.
    </p>
        <table>
            <tgroup cols="3">
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Reconstructed Information</entry>
                        <entry>Spelling</entry>
                        <entry>Remarks</entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>author</entry>
                        <entry><codeph>N. N.</codeph></entry>
                        <entry>(Nomen nescio.) Exceptions are newspapers, encyclopedias or works published by official sources, which are derived from an unspecifiable collective of authors (e. g. legal works, documents, edicts); here the author's information remains empty.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>place of publication</entry>
                        <entry><codeph>s. l.</codeph></entry>
                        <entry>(sine loco) Exception: manuscripts; no location is given here.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>publisher</entry>
                        <entry><codeph>s. e.</codeph></entry>
                        <entry>(sine editore) Exception: manuscripts; here a publisher's name is not given.</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
            <p>In the short title, these information are enclosed in square brackets to indicate that they are editorial additions. The complete title information contains the respective information without brackets.
    </p></section>
   <example>
       <title>References to Unknown Information in the Short Title</title>
      
      <p><pre>Naumann, Bernhard: Der aufrichtige Leipziger Roßarzt. [s. l.], 1780.</pre></p>
      
      <p><pre>[N. N.]: Ein Koch- Und Artzney-Buch. 2. Aufl. Grätz, 1688.</pre></p>
      
    </example>
  </body>
</topic>
