<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="trZeichensetzungAllg">
  <title>Basic Rules for Punctuation</title>
  <titlealts><navtitle>Punctuation Basic Rules</navtitle></titlealts>
<body>
<p>
  All punctuation marks (question marks, exclamation marks, dot, comma, semicolon, colon, „Virgel“ <codeph>/</codeph>) are transcribed as printed. A normalisation of the punctuation according to today's standards is not necessary.
</p>

<p>
  Punctuation marks are placed directly on the preceding word without spaces. A blank space follows. Quotes and parentheses are placed directly on the text enclosed by them without spaces. Footnote references also fit directly to the preceding sign without spaces.
</p>
  
<p>
  The mark left on the page by a spatium that has fallen off during the printing process is not transcribed.
</p>

<p>
  Several points in a row, which are supposed to point up an omission, are enclosed by a blank character. An exception to this rule are points that illustrate terminating a word. They follow directly after the incomplete word without spaces.
</p>

<p>
  Before and after dashes in the middle of a sentence there is a blank space. If the dash is directly in front of a punctuation mark, no blank space is typed in between.
</p>

<p>
  For punctuation, the Unicode table <xref href="http://www.unicode.org/charts/PDF/U2000.pdf" scope="external" format="pdf">General Punctuation</xref> applies.
</p>
</body>
</topic>
