<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ntb_5sd_qs">
  <title>Objective and Focus of the DTA Basic Format</title>
  <titlealts><navtitle>Objective</navtitle></titlealts>
    <body>
      <p>The structural annotation of all DTA texts is done according to the DTA ›basic format‹ (DTABf).
        The DTABf was developed in accordance with which is based on the P5-Guidelines of the 
        <xref href="http://www.tei-c.org/" format="html" scope="external">Text Encoding Initiative (TEI)</xref>. Since the TEI Guidelines 
        are offering solutions for a huge amount of tagging requirements and are thus rather extensive 
        and flexible, they are meant to be adjusted to the individual necessities of projects working 
        with the TEI. For the DTA this was achieved by creation of the DTABf, a proper subset of the 
        TEI/P5 tagset, which offers not only fixed sets of elements but also of corresponding attributes 
        and (where applicable) values. The DTABf tagset is fully conformant with the TEI/P5-Guidelines, 
        i.e. the TEI tagset was only reduced not extended in any way. 
      </p>
      <p>The DTABf is part of the DTA Guidelines, which also contain <xref href="http://www.deutschestextarchiv.de/doku/leitlinien" format="html" scope="external">General Guidelines</xref> 
        and the <xref href="http://www.deutschestextarchiv.de/doku/richtlinien" format="html" scope="external">Transcription Guidelines</xref>. It is supposed to 
        allow for unrestricted tagging regarding possible structural phenomena while at the 
        same time avoiding ambiguities regarding the tagging of similar phenomena. This way 
        we want to ensure coherence in text structuring within the whole DTA corpus. Regarding 
        the wide temporal coverage of the DTA corpus as well as the diversity of text types and
        genres this named intend of the DTABf turns out to be a huge challenge due to the fact 
        that the heterogeneity of texts is accompanied by a huge structural variability among 
        the original text sources. </p>
      <p>With the DTABf we are proposing a standardized format for the structural annotation 
        of digitized historical texts. The advantage of such an approach is that diverse 
        TEI texts become analyzable not only by similar methods but also in comparison with 
        one another. The underlying annotation guidelines of the DTABf are documented extensively, 
        this way ensuring that the tagging remains comprehensive. Thus, DTABf conformity not 
        only facilitaes the integration of TEI texts into the DTA infrastructure but also 
        their re-use inside other full text archives. 
      </p>
      <p id="rec">The DTA basic format was recommended by the DFG and CLARIN-D for subsequent use, namely in the following documents:
        <ul>
            <li><xref href="http://www.dfg.de/download/pdf/foerderung/grundlagen_dfg_foerderung/informationen_fachwissenschaften/geisteswissenschaften/standards_sprachkorpora.pdf" format="pdf" scope="external">Handreichung: Empfehlungen zu datentechnischen Standards und Tools bei der Erhebung von 
                Sprachkorpora</xref>. Hrsg. vom Fachkollegium Sprachwissenschaften der Deutschen 
                Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG). Bonn 2015.</li>
            <li><xref href="http://www.dfg.de/download/pdf/foerderung/grundlagen_dfg_foerderung/informationen_fachwissenschaften/geisteswissenschaften/foerderkriterien_editionen_literaturwissenschaft.pdf" format="pdf" scope="external">Förderkriterien für wissenschaftliche Editionen in der Literaturwissenschaft.</xref> 
                Hrsg. vom Fachkollegium Literaturwissenschaft der Deutschen Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG). Bonn 2015.</li>
            <li><xref href="https://www.clarin-d.de/de/hilfe/benutzerhandbuch" format="pdf" scope="external">CLARIN-D User Guide.</xref> 
                Part II (Linguistic resources and tools), ch. 6 (Types of resources), section "Text Corpora". Hrsg. von CLARIN-D AP 5. Berlin 2012.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </body>
</topic>
